## 3. React Components
### Creating a React Component

A component is just a JS function that returns some JSX.

**Rule #1:** Component function names start with a capital letter, which helps distinguish `<Header>` component from the built in `<header>` dom element.
So instead of putting all our JSX in the render method like this:

```js
ReactDOM.render(
	<ul>
		<li>🤖</li>
		<li>🤠</li>
	</ul>,
	document.getElementById("root")
);
```

We can just put all that into a component, let's call it App:

```js
function App() {
	return (
		<ul>
			<li>🤖</li>
			<li>🤠</li>
		</ul>
	);
}
```

... and replace them with a JSX tag that refers to that component function:

```js
ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById("root"));
```

In general, you run ReactDOM.render for one parent component and the other components are nested in it.

```js
function App() {
	return (
		<div>
			<Header />
			<Main />
		</div>
	);
}
```

**Rule #2:** The component must return a single tag. You can either wrap everything in a div or use React Fragments: wrapping everything in `<></>`:

```js
function App() {
	return (
		<>
			<p>My emojis:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>🤖</li>
				<li>🤠</li>
			</ul>
		</>
	);
}
```

You can build your tree from there by nesting components inside the App component.

### Using props for displaying dynamic data

**Step 1:** Add an argument called props to the component function.

```js
function Header(props) { ...
```

**Step 2:** When we add an attribute in the JSX where we call this component function, it will pass that attribute as a prop to the component function.

```html
<header name="Cansin" />
```

**Step 3:** Now you can use that passed arg in the component function. If you are putting it in jsx, you'd need curly brackets.

```jsx
<h1>{props.name}'s Kitchen</h1>
```

If we pass a number, we'd pass it between braces:

```html
<footer year="{2024}" />
```

or we could pass JS as a prop:

```html
<footer year="{new" Date().getFullYear()} />
```

#### Using an Array as a prop

If you want to render a list from a passed as an Array:

```jsx
<ul>
	{props.dishes.map((dish) => (
		<li>{dish}</li>
	))}
</ul>
```

But this gives a warning in console: `Warning: Each child in a list should have a unique "key" prop.` You could fix it like this but it is not recommended:

```jsx
{
	props.dishes.map((dish, i) => <li key={i}>{dish}</li>);
}
```

Instead, we can create an object for each item in the Array, then pass that Array of Objects as the prop.

```jsx
const dishObjects = dishes.map((dish, i) => ({
	id: i,
	title: dish,
}));
```

```html
<main adjective="amazing" dishes="{dishObjects}" />
```

We'd also need to update the object mapping:

```jsx
<ul>
	{props.dishes.map((dish, i) => (
		<li key={i}>{dish}</li>
	))}
</ul>
```

**We have () around {} because an arrow function can't return an object without wrapping it in ().**
